ocky Linux Testing Team - April 09
VIEW RECORDING - 47 mins (No highlights): 

---

0:00 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Things like cloud images, which are typically not even started generation until after we released. And so I think there's a place for the playbooks, but I really have been wanting to look at something else.  And I started down the path of looking at, well, actually, before I go into that, Trevor?

0:23 - Trevor Cooper
  Yeah, Stack, I just wanted to, like, there's a lot of people here who weren't here before playbooks. And so I think it's worthwhile mentioning what we did before playbooks as well for her to kind of set the context and how much work that was before we had playbooks.  Yeah, it was basically Etherpad. Yeah.

0:42 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  It was basically Etherpad and a whole lot of people talking and typing and making sections and notes and trying to sort through it.  And it worked. We were able to kind of highlight things that we needed to do, but it was messy.  And so... so... so... Playbooks really helped kind of manage a lot of that, so it absolutely was a good tool to start with, but we've really grown to the point where we've pushed past its limitations, and it's interesting, I had a bunch of conversations with Mattermost, and they were like, oh yeah, you're pushing playbooks far further than anybody else is doing, and they actually have made improvements to playbooks because of what we were doing, but it's still not quite where we're at.  They're thinking much smaller scale, especially in regards to contributions, they are very much a one task per person, assign this task to this person, and that person clicks it off, so I went down the path of looking at how Fedora does stuff, and I really like the way Fedora does stuff, but it's also very tool to Fedora, when I started looking at trying to host it, and  And do our own version and flavor, it really wanted hooks into all the Fedora things. Um, so yeah, it's open source and I could probably rewrite a bunch of it and do stuff with it, but it is very much open source targeted at one project.  And so, um, the two paths that have kind of come up was I was talking to Bob about this and Bob wanted to take a stab at creating his own.  and we're going to look at that here shortly. Um, I'm going to let him kind of showcase it because I really like the direction it's going.  It's very much the pros of the way that I like Fedora does things, um, without a lot of the Fedora hooks.  And I think we have a lot more flexibility to tweak it to our needs. And then, um, the other one was, um, I was talking to Lee about how Tega, Tiga, I'm not entirely sure how you say it.  started. How it creates these epics with stories and different task levels. And I saw how I could easily create an epic with a release with different stories for the different groupings of different, like for example, OpenQA, create a whole bunch of tasks.  Sparky, create a whole bunch of tasks. And be able to track conversations based on that task to say like, oh yeah, I've completed this.  And then, you know, let's say Howard jumps in and I'm not around and we have to release another candidate.  He can come back in and say, I've also double checked this on release candidate two and it failed. And then Alan can jump in and say, well, it passes on release candidate three.  And we can have that kind of history with it. Like, so I... I liked the conversation I had with Lee, and I was very blunt that it is way out of my wheelhouse.  These are not tools that I am used to. So I'm not sure if the way that I would be utilizing the tool was correct.  There was a lot of, I had a lot of questions that he wasn't even sure how to answer on how he would track, like, random drive-by, somebody who jumps in, wants to help, and, you know, do everybody need to have accounts for these things?  How do we track accounts and getting them in? Because, I mean, Release Candidate Weeks, there's several hundred people who are in those channels, and it's not unusual for us to have 30-ish people doing something.
  ACTION ITEM: Set up Tega prototype for May release w/ Lee; mirror Playbooks; track metrics - WATCH: https://fathom.video/calls/629621545?timestamp=291.9999  And so that's a lot of overhead for some of that. Anyway, he rounded up some people. And so I'm hoping to get some time to kind of work through and maybe set up a prototype of what a release would look like with that.  So that is in, we're having conversations about it. I haven't done anything with it yet, so that's not ready to show off.  But I am hoping that as we can have more conversations, then maybe we can start to figure out, like, which of these tools do we want to try?  for this next May. I would not make it our primary tool yet, just because the first round is going to be a little bit rough.  But I would love to track, and I am happy to do, like, bulk of the work of making sure that, you know, I'm taking playbooks information and kind of semi-tracking it to figure out where some kinks are and where we've got some bugs and other things.  And maybe some other Other people can kind of jump in and help kind of manage that and kind of like, oh, yeah, we need to make improvements here or this really worked well so that when we come, you know, to November, maybe we aren't using playbooks.  Maybe we've really kind of fine tuned it. So that's kind of what I'm hoping for is that we have these two releases.  My ultimate goal, though, is we've got time before 11 drops, but there is an overlap. We'll be supporting 9, 10, and 11, and I really want a tool that works a whole lot better than playbooks when we get to the spot of we're dealing with three releases because that was not super fun to deal with when we had 8, 9, and 10 and trying to juggle all three of those.  So I really want to make things easier for our contribution community, as well as for us. And so, yeah, any questions on that before I hand it over to Bob to showcase some of what he's been doing?

7:01 - Trevor Cooper
  I have one statement that's the question. I think one of the things that you haven't mentioned specifically that I think you're thinking about, but I think we need to make more explicit, is figuring out how do we make gating decisions off of contributions from people who are drive-bys versus who are in the team or in the community as long-term members.  And I think we need to be careful. I think we want to support drive-by activities and let people learn just without having to make a commitment.  But I think we want to be careful about making decisions about making a release based on non-vetted people. So I think for any solution that we have, anyone who can make a contribution that would potentially be gating has to be registered with us.  And ideally has to have some history with us. They can't just kind of come in, set up a Mattermost account on Friday and be making big deal.

8:02 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  So I would say that, that you're absolutely right, that has been in my mind, and that is worthy of good discussion, because where historically, if I have somebody I've never seen before who jumps in and says, hey, I've done a, you know, a boot off of an ISO and a VM, like, that is a valid checkmarks, I'm going to list them as a contribution.  But as somebody else who does a checkbox, I'm going to trust that one that I know a little bit better.  And where I'm hoping is that, as we are making Sparky tests a whole lot easier for people to kind of jump in and do, and Bob's been making some really good progress on that, and so is Alexi, where it could be a lot easier for somebody to run these tests.  Like, to be able to have somebody run a suite of tests and say, hey, here's where these passed, here's where these failed.  That helps me if I get to the same thing of, like, knowing, okay... I've had somebody else check it.  Especially for, as we're trying to make ARX64 a more first class citizen and on par with x8664, there's not as many H64 boxes.  So the more like people saying I was able to run a test, that at least builds confidence, even if it's not a vote that I trust.  And to have like Tyga where they have a comment that's left or like with what Bob's doing, where we can see like, hey, this person contributed these things.  that gives us a vote of confidence, not necessarily a, this is a trusted, um, source, but yeah, very good point.  All right. And there's nothing else. Um, Bob, would you mind kind of showcasing what you've been doing? Okay.

9:58 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Can you allow me to share screen? Oh, yes.

10:04 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  There we go. I think I have to make you a co-host to do, so I just did.

10:16 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Let's see. I can figure out how it works. All right. Okay. I'll see that. You can. Yep. Okay. So this is...  This is something I put together, this is a framework that is all Python, which I'm fairly familiar with, and it's a framework called REO that's for developing web apps in Python, and so I put this together because I was interested in getting something to replace playbooks and have some of the other features, and I just mostly wanted to sort of see what it looked like and get some feedback.  This is something that I think kind of shows what I've been thinking, but there's a lot of room for improvement and other things that we may want to add in.  But anyway, as I said when I posted the thing, I'm hoping it's something people can take a couple of looks at.  So right now I have this concept of a test book. You can see currently active test books here. I  There, my power just went out, but fortunately, I'm on backup, so I guess we're okay. So anyway, I've kind of created these three different ones, just sort of arbitrary names for now, and probably at some point, we would add a little bit more stuff in here to kind of show in progress or closed or decide how much history we wanted to show on there and all, but for right now, it's just kind of a name tag that goes in.  So when you click on one of these, you can see in the URL that that name kind of appears in the URL, and that kind of puts you into a section where that's a parameter that's tracked.  So basically, I tried to duplicate the, oops, yeah, I didn't do hope for QA, I tried to duplicate most of the stuff in playbooks into these different sections and put them on here.  Everything is stored right now in a SQLite database, and what we're seeing. Seeing here in this view is the list of the different test sections like you have on the playbook, so you open this up and you can say, okay, here's a bunch of names of tests with some description, and by default, this is going to show just a count of how many passes and fails have been submitted for that test, and as far as looking at results and kind of drilling down and seeing more specifically, I don't have that in here yet, I'm still figuring out the right way to do that, but I would expect we would want some way to drill down and see who did the test that failed, what comments they had on it, et cetera, stuff like that, but what you can do is you can click the submit button, and there may be more things we want to put in here, but basically, this is submitting a test result for this particular test.  You can pick which architecture you were testing on here, and it'll start with whatever you were We're seeing on the previous screen, but you can show it.  I added a pass, fail, and a partial because I was also copying the thing that you had showed before that somebody had done with Claude.  And when I saw that layout, that's kind of where I thought, oh, I could kind of do something like that.  And so I just kind of mirrored that pass, fail, partial. If we want to keep that, we could add those partial counts onto that main page or we wouldn't have to.  I don't know. We weren't doing this before, I don't think, in Playbooks, but they had like a couple of different deployment types, know, bare metal, KVM, container, et cetera.  If we want to track that, we can do that. And then I've just got a place that you can put, you know, put an arbitrary comment here.  And what I would expect is that at some point when we click on the drill down, or we click on the thing that shows the number of passes and fails, it would be a way of bringing up.  In some a little bit more condensed fashion, a list of all the various results where you can see the comments, you can see the date, time stamp that's recorded, and who the user was.  Right now, everything is saved based on the user that you log in as. So you click Submit, and it goes in, and now we've, you know, we've bumped the number of fails up by one there.  Let's see, what else? So this just is a bunch of the same, you know, these are just words that are kind of based on what we had before.  And we, a lot of these had kind of generic descriptions, which we may want to beef up sometime if we wanted to use it that way.  But anyway, the point also is, this was something I was doing so I could make it, you I could put in whatever words I wanted.  It's easier for me to edit. I created an edit mode, which I'm going to show you that. If I log out here and I log in as a Rocky A user for admin.  . . Then it should get basically the same except for now there is a admin button that's up here.  We click this admin button and you go into this table editing and now you can see the same list of tests but now you can go in and edit this and change the name or the description.  There's a place to put links to actual test procedures if we have them which obviously that would be good to show you know in the other page but I didn't quite know where to stick it yet.  This is where it keeps track of when it was created I can't edit that but I can this will also get updated automatically if we make any changes in here.  So this is just a way to edit the test put it in a different group or something if we wanted to and there's not much to that either.  So but you can go through and do these and I cancel just puts things back if I had started to change something here.  And then I cancel it. It should go back to what it was before. You can also add a whole brand new test, which is very similar, except that it just starts out blank there.  And now you can see that, oh, this, since I'm logged in as Rocky A, that's going to keep track of who that was.  Now, if I cancel out of this, I think it kind of just goes back to the main page. So that's really about all there is that's functioning in here right now.  This does go into, like I said, a SQLite database. And so there's things we can change in there. There's things we can show.  If we want to show more, I might need to put in the, I probably do now that I think about it, even when you're logged in with a, oh, yeah, I guess I could do that.  If go to home here, go back into this. Yeah, then I can see I'm not acting in admin mode.  I'm still logged in as that admin user, but I can now get into the normal page where you can see the passes and fails and submit.  So, yeah. Yeah. And if we wanted, right now, these things will change if you change this architecture. Like if we go to ARCH, then, you know, the number of passes and fails change because those are tracked separately.  The x86 has two fails that are marked and nothing's been submitted on the ARCH, for example. So rather than doing like what Playbooks had where there was kind of a different section for each one, I just assume we're pretty much going to run the same tests and split them out by architecture.  We, there may be likely some tests that aren't appropriate for all of them. And we may want to have a way of designating somehow that this test is not to be run for that architecture.  I don't have a way to deal with that yet. But anyway, that's about all I got. If anybody has any questions, I would be happy to answer them.  And if anybody wants to play with that, the URL was put in the test channel, I think, maybe. Oh, it was put in the internal test channel.  But if anybody on here wants to go to it, I called this thing because I like to come up with acronyms.  was like . Thank We it Tetrarch for testing, test tracking for Rocky candidates, and so it's trarch.robisonranch.net, and you can log in as Rocky Rocky, or guest guest, or Rocky underscore A, Rocky underscore A, the guest lets you see, basically the guest view is the same, so there's already some privilege separation here, that just doesn't let you submit, you just see the number of passes that fail, so you can just read only, if you're a guest, if you're a regular user, you can submit, and then if you're an admin user, you can do the test editing, so.

19:38 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  So I sent a link in the chat for the Fedora test days, would you mind bringing that up, and so we can bounce between the two?  Sure. Just open a new tab. Oh, I was just going to have you show it, but if you want, I can do it.  Oh, oh, oh, well, oh, the Fedora one, gotcha.

20:05 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Yeah, yeah, you just want to open it in tab. Let me, uh, I'm not real sure.

20:22 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Yeah, if you just click on one of these, for anybody who hasn't seen it, they've got a way that, uh, like anybody can join and start submitting, and when you submit to them, um, this gets auto-generated with all of the different stuff, and they just have a very basic grid.  But I liked the grid because it showed the different things that they wanted to have tested and the different ways, and then people can select which tests that they ran and give information.  So if you kind of scroll down, they've got one for each of the different architectures, um, although I guess this particular test, they were just.  They on a few. didn't get a lot of other things. Is this the test? Or this looks like it's the hardware mode that it was being tested in?

21:07 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Yeah.

21:08 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  The hardware mode it was in. Yep. What's the actual test? Oh, I guess that's the one I clicked on, which is maybe more information about this event here.  Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yep. And they've got a whole, like, wiki page dedicated for, we want you to run these different tests, right?  Right. So let's see if we check something different, like KDE Plasma.

21:27 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Okay. So again, this is going to be, you have a list of users, a list of, okay, now this looks a little bit more like these are broken down somewhat by test.  Yeah.

21:37 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  So I liked how they kind of structured stuff. The reason why I like yours a little bit better is you can see all the different ways the tests are broken, like, out.  And if we could be able to view the different comments, kind of like that one where they had the different comments shown for how the different tests ran or why they had a success, why they had a.  Failure, why they had a partial, that I think would be helpful, and I like the idea of having two things, one, kind of a guest view of just like, hey, here's where everything is at, show me green checkboxes, or empty whatever, we haven't run these tests yet, or we haven't verified, or an X if we need to.  I guess in their case, there's a login button, so by default, without logging in, you're already a guest, and you can see this level of info, right?  Right. Yep. And so, I kind of like that, because we do have a lot of people who are, you know, they're just following along, they're waiting to see where things are at.  And I think it would be important too, for us to be able to distinguish between Release Candidate 1, Release Candidate 2.  And I don't know if we want to do that on a higher up level, where you have, like, X86-64, and then you...  We have the different candidates or even higher than that and just say release candidate one and then all the different testing to be able to toggle the views between them.  But I think that would be very helpful because sometimes when a release candidate two comes out, we don't need to retest everything.  There's only a few things that we need to test. And sometimes it is a we're retesting everything. Yeah. And so to be able to have a history of being able to say, all right, release candidate one, we were able to do this.  Release candidate two, here's where we're at. And I think that would be helpful too as you're kind of thinking about like how we might distinguish between the different release candidates.  We typically don't go super high, but I remember there was one that we had like three or four that we went through.  There was a lot, but anyway. Yeah.

23:57 - bob robison (grayeul)
  like you say, made there may be times where, know, in particular. In the things that changed in this release candidate was because of a particular issue, and so those are the priority things you want to test.  But, you know, obviously you would like to be able to, you if you've changed the ISO, for example, you really should test everything again somehow, if at all possible.

24:15 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Yeah, and it's one of those things that like, okay, so we've done two release candidates. We are going to have to spend something else, a release candidate three, but we're only testing a very small subset for this release candidate three.  Yeah. I don't mind that being something where I just go through and say, this test passed on RC2, we're good, close it out, so we have a nice little green, you know, grid for people to look at.  And that would be helpful for people to kind of know, like, where we're at in the testing. But right now, I don't have a exact, like, this is the way I want it.  This is kind of more of like, this is where I would like to see it go. So we need to think about like, how to.  The best figure out how to make that easy for people to be able to see, but I do like the addition of having the VMs, KVM, or the hardware, et cetera.  Yeah. Yeah.

25:11 - bob robison (grayeul)
  So the question there is, you know, you can't easily do a, just a count pass here, then if you, you would have to do something like they had with the grid where you have a separate, you know, kind of a separate column for the different types, I guess.  Or, you know, that's, there's the presentation question, how do you present this info, right? It really depends on what you're looking for.

25:33 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Well, with that one, if I were to click on a test and be able to see all the ways that somebody has committed, like not necessarily in a high level, but a deeper down level, all the details, I think that'd be really good because we have had issues where, oh, well, we've got three people saying it's passing and one person who's not, what's the difference?  Yeah. Oh, they are on hardware and the other three were on virtual machines. they are Okay, so maybe this is something we need to really look into versus, well, this works for everybody except the one who's got a very old version of VMware, you know, like, okay, well, I'm not going to worry about a weird odd case side bug.

26:16 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Yeah, I suppose in that case, you start having to track other info, which you can probably do all in the comments, but okay, I write on a VM.  Well, what does that mean? You know, what, which type of VM, what version software, et cetera? What was the real hardware you were running on?

26:29 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Right, that also gets me to the spot where, okay, Alan said that his test failed, and it was a VM.  I can ping Alan and say, hey, you're failed, can we reproduce it? And if so, what are your spec details?  I don't necessarily need to ask all that up front unless we really start to figure out, like, no, these VMs are causing problems.  Next release, let's have more details that people have to fill out if they're doing VMs. I'm okay with us growing in that way and not over engineering to be.

27:00 - Trevor Cooper
  I think it might be useful to consider the fact that although you see the data here on the Fedora example that you're viewing right now as a point in time snapshot, there's no way to know how those things are modified as they were added.  It's quite possible, let's say on the example for Gary L.M. with Fedora 44 there, that he added the notations one, two, and three much later than when he actually did them when some discussion came up, right?  And so based on, I mean, and clearly the way that the data is stored doesn't support them providing this information in a different way than this.  They could have made new entries if they wanted, and people have adapted to it, but I think it's important that when we're thinking about this, there's different kinds of questions that you'd want to ask during release week to make...  Right. one of the important ones, Stack, that we have to remember is we ultimately help Release Engineering decide that we're ready to release.  Yep. And being able to provide a view that summarizes things in such a way that surfaces that decision information to the top, I think is more important than having a view with all the possible combinations of information.  I think what you're stating is an important thing to be able to dig into with the data, but I don't think that that's the important decision during Release Week, necessarily, unless it is.  Well, I was thinking about the summary level at a high enough level that you can make a decision about we're ready to release or not.

28:47 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  I was really thinking about, like, how do we make that determination of we need to escalate this to Release Engineering, or we just need somebody else to verify this test and something else.  Sure. Sure. But you're absolutely right because- Because ultimately, like, that's why I want to keep the the matter most channels for the release so they can have these conversations with the release engineering and be able to say, here is the next thing that we need to work on or this is something you need to be aware of.  Right.

29:15 - Trevor Cooper
  And then related to that and the whole discussion about like, how do you track like RC2, RC1, or even like even the beta, because you could have something failing in beta.  Yeah. But then gets resolved in the first RC. Yeah. And, and, and it's fine. Right. And, and you kind of want to be able to have that history.  And so for the life of all of the pieces, let's say of Rocky 10.3, from the look ahead to the beta, to the first release candidate and to the final release, you might want to have the history viewable.  But ultimately, you don't care about all that history when you're just deciding if you're gonna do the release or not.  You just want the final numbers to be doubled up to some panel. That's a view. Um, Now that might be the highest level one that you look at as a guest, the very simple panel that doesn't give you all the details broken down.  So there's some ideas here that are, I think, critical to the data design of the whole thing that are less about presentation layer, but really how do we store the information in such a way that we can make that decision?  And then what's the important factor that comes into that? Like, again, back to my question or comment before, if you have this count of number of passes and fails, and that's your critical factor on deciding if you're going to make a gating decision or not, how do you vet those passes and fails?  How do you create the structure in here so that you can know that a failure that's reported by a person isn't a failure from me, but it's a failure from a random new person running on some weird hardware architecture, right?  So you don't want to have to go through and dig into the details to know that the thing that...  What's blocking is a random person who you don't have to contact and find out what they're doing. But if it was a person who kind of already has some like, you know, I don't know, like...  Karma? ...magic points, their statement is like, just, it's a blocker right off the bat. You don't have to talk to them today to figure it out, you know what I'm saying?  So there's some information I think that we might want to think about how would we add that into here.

31:25 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  And it doesn't have to be...

31:27 - Trevor Cooper
  Yeah, I don't know that the first person, I don't think we'll have it nailed down perfectly, right? Probably. So...  But I think there's some important pieces there that we want to make sure that we're able to track into the database to be able to have them be used to make decisions a little bit further on, so...  Howard?

31:48 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Oh, yeah. Yeah, just...

31:49 - Howard Van Der Wal (CIQ)
  Yeah, Bob, what you've got there I think is already excellent, especially, like, compared to what we have at the moment in Maths and Most.  And I think it's much easier to...

32:00 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Define like each of the tests and like you know be able to submit feedback you know that's great I mean I'd like to provide feedback on what you've got there sure um do you have that in like a like a public github repo yeah yeah yeah let me put that let me put that in there too yeah so I'd love to you know if you if you're winning and if it's okay to take some feedback sure sure great it's um it's already excellent oops thank you very much there you go yeah that should be all up to date there um with what what we're what we're looking at right now and I was already you know as far as some of the stuff Trevor was talking about I had sort of thought about I just didn't get around to putting like the summary count here like more like in playbooks where there was a count of you know zero out of six or one out of six or whatever that is passed you could obviously include that here in this main bar as a as a more important status so that even when all these are collapsed you can  We see some of that. Oh, and as far as the release candidates go, I did wonder about how we might should handle that.  We could, if it's easier to create these, what I'm calling a test book here, like this could be Rocky Linux 10.1-RC1, and you could make a whole different one for RC2 if you really just wanted to kind of move on and make it easier to flush out.  Or you could make it a subcategory or depending on if you wanted to try to keep track of what happened on RC1 or what happened on RC2 without flipping around quite so much.  It's kind of hard to, I didn't have a good thing, thinking in my head about how, how standalone was a given release candidate or when there was a new, you know, a new thing that came out that we want to necessarily start over, et cetera.  So we could, we could do that a couple of different ways depending on how we think we want to handle it.

33:54 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  I mean, I kind of like the idea of having your top level be the. And then having like each one of the different sections be a sub tab or something, however you want to do that, because then like I really like Trevor's point about the look ahead.  There's a lot of stuff we find in look ahead where we're just we're not checking off boxes as we are just can we do this and what problems can we tell release engineering about before we get to release.  And then when we get a beta, Then we know, okay, this is a little bit more serious. Let's have a, you know, clean template, but we don't necessarily want to lose all that history either.  Yeah, we wouldn't lose the history because it would all be saved.

34:40 - bob robison (grayeul)
  The question is, how do you get at it? Do you need to see in some, at some screen, do you need to see these particular tests and what their state was for release candidate one, for release candidate two, for beta?  Or do you really just want to look at the latest one and then be able to go back and find the other if you wanted to look at it, but not necessarily.  I see your question now.

35:03 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Yeah, I would want to be able to look at current, whatever current is, and then switch back to see what history was.

35:14 - Trevor Cooper
  Yeah, I think to the discussion that's happening now with relative to beta, to release one, to release two, and understanding what is changing between those, right?  So, you know, in the perfect world, the look-ahead is the beta, is the RC1, is the release, and nothing changes, right?  And it'll be a while before we're at that point. But even in the case where there's an RC1, RC2, where there's a minor change, there's probably a single thing that causes the RC to be regenerated.  And it may or may not invalidate any of the tests of previous testing. And the ideal thing to know...  It like, what does it invalidate? And so if there's only four tests that have to be rerun, I would like to know what those tests are and only do those.  Now that's a communication thing between us and release engineering to know what did they change between RC1 and RC2.  If they messed up the secure boot stuff on RC1 and have to regenerate a new release just for that, then that's kind of everything, but that's a pretty easy thing to verify that just secure boot has to be fixed.  If the, like, libGCC or whatever is just wrong in the whole release, that's a much, much bigger thing that we have to go through and validate, right?  And so it would actually be awesome if we said we've tested 98% of everything on RC1, but then we found something and have to regenerate.  If we can specifically say these test results carry forward, they don't have to be redone, and these ones have to be redone, and be able to do that in some magical way.  I don't, I don't even. Imagine how. It might be initially that's manual, that someone has to go check the boxes of saying these are carried fours, right, you just bring the results from RC1 over to RC2, but let's make sure that we test the things that are supposed to be tested in RC2, right?  Because what can happen if we end up doing a beta, an RC1, an RC2, and then, God forbid, an RC3, is people get tired of doing the same things over and over again, and they start to cut corners, or they just aren't able to commit time, and so then we'll leave things out, importantly, right?  So, I like the idea of encapsulating a minor, a major dot minor, into a complete entity where we can carry through the status of those things to reduce the work later on, because what is going to happen is, what Stack has talked about before, at some point, we're going to have three releases happening at the same time again, and it's going to be really hard to keep track of what we've done on each individual release.  And so, to the extent that we can think about that, and minimizing the work on the subsequent... So releases, RC1, RC2, whatever else, that would be, I think, time well spent doing those things, at least thinking about them in advance.  We may not implement everything right off the bat, right? But thinking about how would we be able to do that and what small decisions do we make up front that make that easier down the road?

38:20 - bob robison (grayeul)
  It would also be good to be able to record, I guess it's not ultimately our decision, but it'd be Relang's decision when somebody, maybe we find something and then that says, oh, we're going to need to do another release candidate.  But A, knowing what it was and recording the fact that there's a release candidate coming and making a decision depending on when that's coming, whether you want to keep testing the other one or whatever.  And I forgot this part before and I wanted to say this.
  ACTION ITEM: Implement per-test blocking flag + filter; add admin sign-off; show summary counts; add sort/filter; link procedures - WATCH: https://fathom.video/calls/629621545?timestamp=2334.9999

38:49 - Trevor Cooper
  So we don't have directly in here links into the test procedures for each of these, right? So some of these items have that in their metadata.  You have a URL. Yeah, yeah. I wasn't sure how best to display it, right? That's fine. We'll work that out.  That's the presentation thing. But I think it's really important in the data model is that we include onto there the ability to mark a specific test in this whole thing as blocking or non-blocking.  Because any blocking test blocks the release if it has a failure. And that's a critical decision and we should put our effort there.  Things that are non-blocking, I'm not really sure that we care that much during release week of prioritizing those tasks.  And those can get taken care care of after that release. like the cloud images, like that's non-blocking. But there are things in here that are blocking.  And we definitely want to catch those early because the sooner we catch those and get those fixed, the sooner and fewer maybe release candidates we end up producing, right?  So we want to fix those first.

39:48 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Would you see that potentially as an extra column on here or one that could potentially be separately filtered on?  So you can say only show me the blocking stuff. I want to see the status of those or something like that.  Yeah, Yeah.

39:57 - Trevor Cooper
  mean, but I think every single test has to have a few.

40:00 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Mark, yep, yep, yeah, so you could have a column here that says blocking or non-blocking and then you can have a separate button that says show me all of them, show me only the blocking ones or whatever.

40:11 - Trevor Cooper
  Again, and so, I mean, the ideal thing would be, this is getting into the nuts, like into the nitty gritty, like, it would be ideal if individual users had the ability to check or configure which columns they care about seeing or not, right?  And so that, if I don't care about their blocking or not, I just want to see that, like, and maybe the guests don't need to see that or not, but somebody needs to see that, right?  Yeah. We to see, are there any tests that are blocking right now? Right? And, and so, so, so it's possible that in an iteration, we have the ability to modify the columns that are displayed in the grid at a user level, or I say at an, at a role level, that's kind of what we do.  Yeah. So like, don't maybe lock it in so strictly, but that's like, that's a feature more than it is just add another column.  Right. Yeah. You can see, obviously, Bob, that adding all the columns makes the table hard to navigate and so there's a desire to decide which things are combined.  Like literally, like the description, the way you could implement the URL is that the description itself would link to the URL or the URL details.  Like if there was a URL, you'd add a details thing into the description and you click on that to go to the details and that would take you to the test.  There's all kinds of ways that you could do that. yeah. some things can be combined, but some things are critical to filter off of and yeah.  So, and this is the part where the people who have been around in multiple releases are going to remember things that happened in the past and be able to kind of provide some inputs there.  Where the people who haven't, they're going to have like great inputs like on the UI because they're not going to be blinded by the past, right?  They're going to just go, this is what I think would be useful to see and they're probably going to be great people to not be, kind of have their vision cloud.  So we've done in the past.

42:02 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Yeah, one thing I did want to ask because I originally put it in the database design, but then I decided not to actually put it on here.  What we were used to before was we had the way to, you know, claim a test, right? So you assigned a test or you say, hey, I'll do that test before you actually submitted a pass fail.  And then that also one of the downsides from my perspective on playbooks is, okay, somebody had claimed this test.  Now I don't know whether, but I was able to run this test to my market as being passed. I don't want to take it away from them, et cetera.  And so a question I had was, do we really, do we want to try to keep track of, you know, somebody having claimed or ownership or assigned a test or just worry about?  Now that we have the ability, if we go this way, of having multiple people submit responses, maybe that is not as important.  I don't know. To me, it's not, but...

42:53 - Trevor Cooper
  I think that's, we're mixing playbook with two purposes, right? That's like task allocation. And they have kind of two different, there's two different use cases that you're trying to satisfy with that and with a very small team, it's really important to task allocate so that not everybody's doing the same thing and we're not all leaving off the one thing to be done, right?  So, yeah, I mean, and that's where just this reporting, if you can do things like sort columns by like number of passes, you can find the tests that no one has done before very easily and go, oh, here's some things to go and work on because Because no one has reported a pass for it, or no one's reported a pass or a fail, right?  And if people reported passes or fails, I can like leave those off and go like pick off the low-hanging fruit, right?  And not try and solve the problem. And that's just a UI, a minor UI change, I hope, that you can do things like just sort by, like just filter or do whatever else.  I just want to see tests that no one's done and I'll go grab a couple of those and do those.  And as soon as someone reports those results, yeah, you might have a little bit of overlap by people doing it in parallel.  But once... When are reported, if people are looking for things that no one have done, they're not going to get those ones anymore, right?  And so they start to look for no completions or only fails and start to pick off those, right? And then you can say, but I really, really want to focus on the blockers, right?

44:15 - bob robison (grayeul)
  Yeah, the other question that came up, you know, when I started trying to keep counts of both passes and fails, what does it mean if you see, oh, there were two passes and two fails, do I ignore the two fails because we at least got two passes?  Or, you know, did those happen?

44:30 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  I think this would be where it would be good to have somebody who's got admin level who could check the box on...  Anybody who adds to this test is great, but it's considered complete. And so whether or not there's pass, fails, partials, one of the admins has looked at it and said, this is good.  Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Okay. Because sometimes those fails may be valid fails that we want to keep. Hey, this failed on RISC-V.  Okay, well, it doesn't even build properly on RISC-V, you know? We don't have all of the packages built on RISC-V, right?  So maybe that's just not a thing. And so I think it's valid to have. I'm glad somebody tested it.  But I think especially with what Trevor was saying about the hiding, I think that's probably the thing I use in playbooks the most toward the end, is once I've already kind of scrolled through all the tests and I've said, all right, Alan signed off on this, Trevor signed off on this, Bob signed off on this, Lucas signed off on this, like I am good with all of these sign-offs.  Hide everything and just show me what's left. Okay. Yeah. So I think this is. This been a fantastic conversation.  I think we gave you loads of ideas and information, but this is incredible for where you're at already. And so, yeah, thank you so much, Bob, for all the time and effort on this.  And, yeah, since we are kind of nearing at time, any final comments for Bob? Any final comments for testing team?  Anything you want to show, talk about? Perfect. Paying me on Mattermost, if anybody's got questions or something I can help with.  I'll get to you as soon as I possibly can and help out wherever I can. So please let me know.  Thank you all for all the time and effort and help on this. It is very much appreciated. So thank you very much, everybody.  Thanks, everyone.

46:51 - Trevor Cooper
  Have a good one, everyone.

46:53 - Chris "Stack" Stackpole
  Bye.
